>> Ifill: GOOD EVENING, I'M GWEN
IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: ON THE NEWSHOUR
TONIGHT, A NEW PROPOSAL TO LOWER
CARBON POLLUTION SPARKS AN
IMMINENT SHOWDOWN OVER CLNEA
POWER AND CLIMATE CHANGE.
>> Woodruff: FIRES BURN
UNCONTAINED ACROSS VAST PARTS OF
BONE-DRY CALIFORNIA, PROMPTING
WIDESPREAD EVACUATIONS.
>> Ifill: PLUS, FROM THE BORDER
REGIONS OF SUDAN, AID WORKERS
AND CIVILIANS CAUGHT IN THE
CROSSFIRE OVER CONTESTED LAND,
BECOME COLLATERAL DAMAGE.
>> THEY WANT US TO GO AWAY.
THEY WANT TO KILL EVERYBODY
HERE.
THEY WANT TO DEMORALIZE THE
PEOPLE.
THEY WANT TO TREAT EVERYBODY
LIKE ANIMALS.
>> Woodruff: ALL THAT AND MORE
ON TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: THOUSANDS OF
FIREFIGHTERS IN CALIFORNIA
LOOKED TO THE FORECAST TODAY,
FOR RELIEF FROM A SCOURGE OF
WILDFIRES.
LOWER TEMPERATURES AND HIGHER
HUMIDITY HELPED CREWS TRYING TO
CONTAIN THE BIGGEST FIRE.
IT'S BURNING NEAR LOWER LAKE,
100 MILES NORTH OF SAN
FRANCISCO.
THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE HAVE BEEN
WARNED TO EVACUATE.
WE'LL HAVE A FULL REPORT AFTER
THE NEWS SUMMARY.
>> Ifill: THE ATTORNEY GENERAL
OF TEXAS, KEN PAXTON, HAS BEEN
FORMALLY CHARGED WITH SECURITIES
FRAUD.
THE TEA PARTY CONSERVATIVE
ALLEGEDLY ENCOURAGED PEOPLE TO
INVEST IN A TECH START-UP--
WITHOUT TELLING THEM HE WAS
BEING COMPENSATED BY THE
COMPANY.
PROSECUTORS SAY IT HAPPENED
BEFORE PAXTON TOOK OFFICE IN
JANUARY.
>> Woodruff: A COLORADO JURY
REFUSED TODAY TO RULE OUT THE
DEATH PENALTY FOR JAMES HOLMES,
O SWHHOT A DOZEN PEOPLE TO DEATH
AT A MOVIE THEATER IN 2012.
THE SAME JURY THAT CONVICTED HIM
IS NOW CONSIDERING A SENTENCE.
TODAY'S FINDING SETS UP FINAL
TESTIMONY, STARTING TOMORROW.
>> Ifill: IN SYRIA, AT LEAST 17
PEOPLE WERE KILLED TODAY WHEN
GOVERNMENT PLANES BOMBED A BUSY
MARKETPLACE, AND ONE OF THE
PLANES CRASHED.
IT HAPPENED IN A NORTHWESTERN
TOWN HELD BY REBELS.
BUT IT WASN'T CLEAR IF THE
PLANE WAS SHOT DOWN.
AT LEAST SEVEN BUILDINGS IN THE
MARKET WERE LEFT IN RUINS.
IN ADDITION TO THOSE CONFIRMED
DEAD, LOCAL REPORTS SAID MANY
PEOPLE WERE MISSING.
PEOPLE WERE MISSING. >> (
translated): BY GOD,
THIS
>> (translated): BY
GOD, THIS MARKET WAS FULL OF
PEOPLE AND
MARKET WAS FULL OF PEOPLE AND
THE PEOPLE CAME TO GET SOME
MONEY.
EACH PERSON WAS AT HIS STALL BUT
NOW ALL OF THEM ARE UNDER THE
RUBBLE.
ALL THE PEOPLE ARE UNDER THE
THE PLANE, THE PILOTS AND ITS
MISSILE ALL HIT THE MARKET, THEY
LEFT NOTHING OF THE MARKET AT
ALL.
>> Ifill: THE TOWN WAS CAPTURED
BY OPPOSITION FIGHTERS AND
MILITANTS IN MAY.
>> Woodruff: A RIFT HAS EMERGED
IN THE RANKS OF AFGHANISTAN'S
TALIBAN OVER THE GROUP'S NEW
LEADER.
THE MILITANTS ANNOUNCED THE
SELECTION OF MULLAH AKHTAR
MOHAMMAD MANSOOR LAST WEEK.
HE SUCCEEDS THE LATE MULLAH
OMAR, BUT NOW OMAR'S BROTHER
SAYS MANSOOR WAS SELECTED BY
ONLY "A FEW," AND DOES NOT HAVE
THE GROUP'S FULL SUPPORT.
>> Ifill: THE GOVERNMENT OF
INDIA IS TELLING TELECOM
COMPANIES TO BLOCK MORE THAN 850
ADULT WEBSITES, AND BAR EASY
ACCESS TO ONLINE PORNOGRAPHY.
OFFICIALS SAID TODAY THEY WANT
TO PROTECT CHILDREN AND SOCIAL
DECENCY.
THE MOVE TOUCHED OFF A DEBATE IN
THE WORLD'S LARGEST DEMOCRACY
OVER MORALITY VERSUS PERSONAL
FREEDOMS.
>> Woodruff: THE STOCK MARKET IN
GREECE PLUNGED TODAY AFTER
REOPENING FROM A FIVE-WEEK
SHUTDOWN.
THE MAIN ATHENS INDEX PLUMMETED
NEARLY 23% AT THE OPENING OF
TRADING.
ANALYSTS SAID MOST INVESTORS ARE
JUST TRYING TO RAISE CASH.
JUST TRYING TO RAISE CASH. >> (
translated): THERE IS A
>> (translated): THERE
IS A SENSE OF PANIC.
SENSE OF PANIC.
THERE IS NO LIQUIDITY IN THE
MARKET AND SOME TRADERS ARE
SELLING OFF IN THEIR QUEST FOR
LIQUIDITY.
AND THERE ARE NO BUYERS BECAUSE
THE GREEK ECONOMY HAS BEEN HARD
HIT BY THE IMPOSITION OF CAPITAL
CONTROLS AND THE BANK CLOSURES.
THE OUTLOOK IS NOT CLEAR
>> Woodruff: THE GREEK MARKET
ULTIMATELY RECOVERED SOME OF ITS
LOSSES, BUT STILL ENDED DOWN BY
MORE THAN 16%.
>> Ifill: CLOSER TO HOME, PUERTO
RICO'S DEBT CRISIS DEEPENED
TODAY AFTER IT MISSED A MAJOR
DEBT PAYMENT.
THE U.S. COMMONWEALTH WAS
SUPPOSED TO REPAY $58 MILLION ON
SATURDAY.
ALL TOGETHER, THE ISLAND OWES
MORE THAN $70 BILLION TO ITS
CREDITORS.
>> Woodruff: DETROIT AUTOMAKERS
POSTED SOLID SALES HEADING INTO
THE SECOND HALF OF THE YEAR.
GENERAL MOTORS AND FIAT CHRYSLER
SAW JULY BUSINESS RISE MORE THAN
SIX PERCENT OVER A YEAR AGO.
FORD SAID ITS SALES FOR THE
MONTH GAINED FIVE PERCENT.
JAPANESE AUTOMAKERS HONDA AND
NISSAN DID BETTER STILL: THEY
WERE UP EIGHT PERCENT.
>> Ifill: WALL STREET GAVE UP
GROUND TODAY, AS OIL PRICES SANK
TO NEAR $45 A BARREL.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
LOST MORE THAN 90 POINTS TO
CLOSE BELOW 17,600.
THE NASDAQ FELL 13 POINTS, AND
THE S&P 500 DROPPED SIX.
SENATE REPUBLICANS TRIED AND
FAILED THIS EVENING TO CUT OFF
FEDERAL FUNDS FOR PLANNED
PARENTHOOD.
THEY PRESSED THE ISSUE AFTER THE
RELEASE OF VIDEOS THAT SHOW
PLANNED PARENTHOOD OFFICIALS
CASUALLY DISCUSSING PROCEDURES
TO OBTAIN FETAL TISSUE.
THE VIDEOS WERE SECRETLY SHOT BY
ANTI-ABORTION ACTIVISTS.
>> Woodruff: AND, FORMER
PENNSYLVANIA SENATOR RICHARD
SCHWEIKER HAS DIED.
HE WAS A LIBERAL REPUBLICAN WHO
BECAME RONALD REAGAN'S VICE
PRESIDENTIAL RUNNING MATE IN
1976, DURING REAGAN'S FIRST,
FAILED BID FOR THE G.O.P.
PRESIDENTIAL NOMINATION.
RICHARSCHWD EIKER WAS 89 YEARS
OLD.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
AN INTENSIFIED PUSH TO TACKLE
CLIMATE CHANGE, AND THE LEGAL
PUSH BACK.
TRYING TO CONTAIN FIRES
CONSUMING HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS
OF ACRES IN CALIFORNIA.
AND MUCMOREH .
>> Ifill: THE PRESIDENT HAS MADE
HIS CLIMATE CHANGE PLANS A MAJOR
PART OF HIS SECOND-TERM, LEGACY-
MAKING AGENDA.
TODAY, HE LAID OUT NEW DETAILS
ABOUT A KEY COMPONENT OF THAT
STRATEGY: REGULATING POWER PLANT
EMISSIONS.
BUT WITHIN MOMENTS OF HIS
SPEECH, OPPONENTS WITHIN SOME
INDUSTRIES AND IN MANY STATES
WERE RESISTING THE STRICTER
STANDARDS.
>> TODAY AFTER WORKING WITH
STATES AND CITIES AND POWER
COMPANIES, THE E.P.A. IS SETTING
THE FIRST NATIONWIDE STANDARDS
TO END THE LIMITLESS DUMPING
FROM POWER PLANTS.
(APPLAUSE)
>> Ifill: WITH THAT, THE
PRESIDENT FORMALLY ANNOUNCED AN
EVEN TOUGHER CLEAN POWER PLAN
THAN EXPECTED.
>> THE IDEA OF SETTING STANDARDS
AND CUTTING CARBON POLLUTION IS
NOT NEW.
ITS NOT RADICAL.
WHAT IS NEW IS THAT STARTING
TODAY, WASHINGTON IS STARTING TO
CATCH UP WITH THE VISION OF THE
REST OF THE COUNTRY.
>> Ifill: THE RULE, TO BE
IMPLEMENTED BY THE E.P.A.,
MEANS: POWER PLANTS MUST CUT
CARBON DIOXIDE EMISSIONS 32% BY
2030.
THAT'S FROM 2005 LEVELS.
SUCH A REDUCTION WOULD BE UP
FROM A 30% CUT IN THE ORIGINAL
DRAFT.
THE REVISED RULE ALSO CALLS FOR
GENERATING 28% OF U.S. POWER
FROM RENEWABLE ENERGY, UP FROM
22%.
AT THE SAME TIME, IT GIVES
STATES EXTRA TIME TO BEGIN
REDUCING EMISSIONS.
INDUSTRY GROUPS, AND A NUMBER OF
STATES, PUSHED BACK TODAY,
SAYING THE RULE WILL COST JOBS
AND CAUSE SPIKES IN ENERGY
PRICES.
AND SENATE MAJORITY LEADER MITCH
McCONNELL, REPRESENTING THE COAL
STATE OF KENTUCKY, PROMISED TO
BLOCK THE PLAN.
>> IT REPRESENTS A TRIUMPH OF
BLIND IDEOLOGY OVER SOUND POLICY
AND HONEST COMPASSION.
IN KENTUCKY, THESE REGULATIONS
WILL LIKELY MEAN FEWER JOBS,
SHUTTERED POWER PLANTS, AND
HIGHER COSTS FOR FAMILIES AND
BUSINESSES.
I'M NOT GOING TO SIT BY WHILE
WHITE HOUSE TAKES AIM AT
LIFEBLOOD OF OUR STATE'S
ECONOMY.
>> Ifill: REPUBLICAN
PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES,
INCLUDING JEB BUSH, ALSO
REJECTED THE E.P.A. PLAN.
>> IT'S TYPICAL OF THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION TAKING EXECUTIVE
POWER HE DOESN'T HAVE. AND I
BELIEVE IT'S UNCONSTITUTIONAL
AND I THINK IN A RELATIVELY
SHORT PERIOD OF TIME, THE COURTS
WILL DETERMINE THAT AS WELL.
>> Ifill: DEMOCRATS, INCLUDING
WHITE HOUSE HOPEFUL HILLARY
CLINTON, GENERALLY SUPPORT THE
PLAN.
IN A STATEMENT, SHE CALLED IT:
"...A SIGNIFICANT STEP FORWARD
IN MEETING THE URGENT THREAT OF
CLIMATE CHANGE."
AND, SHE ADDED: "IT'S A GOOD
PLAN, AND AS PRESIDENT, I'D
DEFEND IT."
BEFORE THE DAY WAS OUT, A MAJOR
COAL MINING FIRM, MURREY ENERGY
CORPORATION, FILED WHAT'S
EXPECTED TO BE THE FIRST OF MANY
SUITS OVER THE RULE.
>> Ifill: FOR A CLOSER LOOK AT
THE NEW RULES, AND HOW THE
ADMINISTRATION PLANS TO DEFEND
THEM, WE TURN TO E.P.A.
ADMINISTRATOR GINA MCCARTHY.
I SPOKE WITH HER A SHORT TIME
AGO.
ADMINISTRATOR McCARTHY,
WELCOME.
>> THANK YOU, GWEN.
>> Ifill: THE PRESIDENT SAID
TODAY THIS ANNOUNCEMENT, THIS
PLAN IS PART OF A LONGER,
BIGGER, MORE SWEEPING, GLOBAL
CLIMATE PLAN.
JUST TALKING ABOUT THE U.S.
PORTION OF IT, FOR SOME PEOPLE,
THAT SOUNDS LIKE THEIR WORST
NIGHTMARE, THAT IT'S PART OF A
BIGGER PLAN.
FOR SOME PEOPLE, THEY SAY THIS
IS JUST THE BEGINNING.
WHY IS IT NOT TOO MUCH
OVERREACHING?
>> I THINK YOU KNOW, GWEN, WE
DID TREMENDOUS OUTREACH ON THIS
PLAN, AND THIS CLEAN POWER PLAN
IS REALLY THE BIGGEST STEP
FORWARD WE'RE TAKING TO COMBAT
CLIMATE CHANGE BUT ALSO TO
PROTECT OUR KIDS' FUTURE AND THE
PLANET.
IT SETS THE FIRST EVER CARBON
POLLUTION STANDARDS FOR OUR
CARBON SECTORRER BECAUSE THEY'RE
THE BIGGEST GENERATOR AND IT
WILL DRIVE DOWN OTHER
POLLUTANTS.
WE LEARNED HOW TO DO IT SMART
AROUND MAKE IT LEGALLY SOLID, DO
THIS IN A WAY TO KEEP OUR ENERGY
RELIABLE, AFFORDABLE, PROVIDE
BILLIONS OF DOLLARS IN BENEFITS
OVER THE COURSE OF THIS RULE.
ACTUALLY, IN THE END, IT WILL
MEAN LOWER ENERGY BILLS FOR
FAMILIES.
SO WE THINK WE HIT THE MARK
HERE.
WE DID A LOT OF OUTREACH.
WE THINK WE DID IT RIGHT AND WE
KNOW THAT STATES AND UTILITIES
ARE GOING TO BE ABLE TO WORK
WITH US TO GET THEIR PLANS IN
AND GET THE REDUCTIONS THAT WE
REALLY NEED TO PROTECT PUBLIC
HEALTH AND GET THE BIG ACTION
YOU NEED GLOBALLY.
>> Ifill: I WANTED TO GET BACK
TO YOU ON SEVERAL OF THE POINTS
YOU MADE, BUT YOU MENTIONED
4 MILLION PUBLIC COMMENTS.
>> YES.
>> Ifill: YET THIS PRESIDENT
COULD PROMULGATE THIS RULE AND
THE NEXT PRESIDENT NEVER
IMPLEMENT IT.
>> ACTUALLY, UNDER THE CLEAN AIR
ACT, CONGRESS GAVE THE PRESIDENT
AND AUTHORITY WITH THE E.P.A. TO
MOVE FORWARD WITH RULES LIKE
THIS BUT IT IS PT THAT EASY SO
UNDO.
AS SOILED LEGAL FOX, A STRONG
RECORD AND WILL STAY IN PLACE,
AND WE'RE CONFIDENT THAT BECAUSE
OF ALL THE WORK WORK WE DID WITH
THE STATES THAT WE'LL SEE THEM
RESPOND.
WE DIDN'T JUST TAKE COMMENTS, WE
LISTENED TO THEM.
WE MADE CHANGES.
THEY WILL SEE THAT.
I THINK EVERYBODY ACROSS THE
U.S. IS BEGINNING TO REALIZE
THAT THE WORST THING WE CAN DO
IS THE TAKE NO ACTION ON CLIMATE
CHANGE.
>> Ifill: THE PRESIDENT SAID
TODAY IF WE DON'T DO IT, NOBODY
WILL, SPEAKING OF THE GLOBAL
IMPACT HERE.
WE KNOW CHINA HAS TAKEN SOME
STEPS, BUT HOW DO YOU KNOW THAT
THE U.S. MAKING THIS STEP WILL
HAVE ANY EFFECT ON OTHER
NATIONS.
>> WELL, THE ONE THING WE KNOW
FOR SURE IS IF THE U.S. DOESN'T
ACT AND WE DON'T LEAD, THEN WE
WILL NOT GET ACTION.
WE ALREADY SAW WHEN WE PUT THE
PROPOSAL OUT THAT WE HAD
COUNTRIES COMING IN, LIKELY
WONDERING WHETHER THE U.S. WAS
FINALLY GOING TO PROVIDE THE
LEADERSHIP WE ALWAYS PROVIDE,
AND WHAT THE PRESIDENT
RECOGNIZED IS THAT WE COULD MAKE
A BIG LEAP FORWARD, IT WOULD BE
GOOD FOR US DOMESTICALLY, WOULD
HELP GROW THE ECONOMY IN JOBS.
THESE INDUSTRIES THAT WE'RE
SUPPORT HEARING ARE ACTUALLY THE
INDUSTRIES WHERE GROWTH IS
HAPPENING.
SO WE ARE ACTUALLY ADDING
BENEFITS TO THE AMERICAN PUBLIC.
IMMEDIATELY, THERE WAS RESPONSE
BY OTHER WORLD ECONOMIES IN THE
LARGEST TO BE ABLE TO MEET AND
SEE HOW THEY COULD JOIN.
THEY KNOW THE WINNER IN THIS
MARKET GLOBALLY THAT ACTUALLY
TAKES ACTION ON CLAIMANT WILL
HAVE TREMENDOUS OPPORTUNITIES TO
ACTUALLY HAVE THE TECHNOLOGIES
AND THE SERVICES THAT THE REST
OF THE WORLD WILL WANT TO SEE.
SO THIS I THIS ISN'T ABOUT A PR,
THIS IS ABOUT TURNING A PROBLEM
INTO A TREMENDOUS ECONOMIC
OPPORTUNITY FOR THE U.S.
DOMESTICALLY AND
INTERNATIONALLY.
OTHER COUNTRIES WILL WANT TO BE
PART OF THAT ACTION.
>> Ifill: DOMESTICALLY, IS IT
ALSO PART OF YOUR INTENTION TO
LET THE UTILITIES TAKE THE LEAD
ON THIS RATHER THAN GOVERNMENT?
>> WELL, I THINK WHAT HAPPENS IN
THIS PARTICULAR PART OF THE SETA
STANDARD, THE STATES DO THEIR
PLANS, BUT WE KNOW THE STATES
ARE SENSITIVE TO THE NEEDS OF
THEIR UTILITIES, AND THE
UTILITIES ARE GOING TO HAVE A
PART AT THE TABLE, BUT THIS IS
BROADER TAKE HOLDER ENGAGEMENT
THAN WE STARTED.
WHEN WE DEVELOP PLANS, WE EXPECT
STATES TO HAVE A ROBUST TABLE
BECAUSE WE DON'T WANT THEM TO
JUST REDUCE POLLUTION, WE WANT
THEM TO DO IT IN A WAY THAT
KEEPS THE LIGHTS ON AND KEEPS IT
AFFORDABLE AND IS GOOD FOR THEIR
ECONOMY.
THIS IS LEGALLY SOLID AND
STICKING AROUND.
WE THINK STATES WILL TAKE IT
SERIOUSLY AS UTILITIES.
>> Ifill: YOU KEEP MENTIONING
AFFORDABILITY.
IF I'M A REGULAR CONSUMER OF
COAL-FIRED ELECTRICITY, I WOULD
BE A LITTLE NERVOUS ABOUT THE
FACT THAT WHAT E.R. PROPOSING IS
GOING TO COST IN THE SHORT AND
LONG-TERM MORE.
>> IN THE INTERIM BETWEEN
PROPOSAL AND FINAL, WE GOT GREAT
COMMENTS, AND WE ARE TURNING
THIS INTO REAL OPPORTUNITIES FOR
TRADING ACROSS STATES.
WE KNOW THAT, AS A RESULT OF
THIS RULE, EVERY SINGLE FUEL
WILL HAVE A PLACE AT THE TABLE.
WILL THERE BE AS MUCH COAL AS
THERE USED TO BE?
NO, THERE WON'T.
WE'RE NOT DRIVING COAL UP, WE'RE
DRIVING CARBON POLLUTION DOWN,
BUT THEY WILL STILL BE PART OF
THE ENERGY MIX AS NATURAL GAS.
THAT'S STILL AS VALUABLE AS
BEFORE AND WE'LL DRIVE MORE
RENEWABLES INTO THE MARKET
BECAUSE FRANKLY THE MARKET IS
USING RENEWABLES NOW.
WE'RE FOLLOWING THE WAVE.
WE NEED TO REDUCE CARBON
POLLUTION, NOT DICTATE ENERGY
MIX AND YOU WILL SEE EVERYBODY
HAS A PLACE AT THE TABLE IN 2030
JUST LIKE TODAY.
>> Ifill: HOW CAN YOU BE SO
CONFIDENT THIS WILL WITHSTAND
LEGAL SCRUTINY?
IT'S ALREADY IN THE COURTS.
>> I THINK EVERYBODY AND THEIR
BROTHER TOLD US WHAT WE THOUGHT
WAS LEGALLY VULNERABLE.
WE SPENT A LOFT TIME TALKING TO
PEOPLE.
WE HAVE LOOKED AT THIS AND
CONFIDENT IT IS LEGALLY SOLID.
WE LISTENED TO COMMENTS.
IF PEOPLE HAD A QUESTION ABOUT
LEGAL AUTHORITY OR TECHNICAL
CORRECTNESS, WE'VE RESOLVED
THOSE ISSUES AND ARE CONFIDENT
THIS WILL STAND THE TEST OF TIME
BUT EVEN MORE CONFIDENT THAT
PEOPLE IN THIS COUNTRY ARE SICK
AND TIRE OF BEING WORRIED ABOUT
CLIMATE CHANGE AND WANT
LEADERSHIP.
THIS PRESIDENT HAS PROVIDED THAT
LEADERSHIP AND NOW IT'S TIME TO
EMBRACE IT AND ACT TOGETHER.
>> Ifill: E.P.A. ADMINISTRATOR
GINA McCARTHY, THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU, GWEN.
>> Woodruff: MORE THAN 20
STATES, MOSTLY LED BY
REPUBLICANS, ARE EXPECTED SOON
TO FILE SUIT AGAINST THE NEW
RULES.
WEST VIRGINIA IS AMONG THOSE
LEADING THE GROUP.
THE STATE IS PART OF THE HEART
OF COAL COUNTRY AND STILL RANKS
COAL AMONG ITS LARGEST
EMPLOYERS, EVEN AS THE NUMBER OF
JOBS DWINDLE.
PATRICK MORRISSEY IS THE STATE's
ATTORNEY GENERAL AND I SPOKE
WITH HIM THIS AFTERNOON.
WELCOME, MR. ATTORNEY GENERAL.
WE APPRECIATE YOUR JOINING US.
THE PRESIDENT SAYS THESE TOUGHER
ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS ARE
NECESSARY NOT JUST TO PROTECT
THE NEXT GENERATION BUT THIS
ONE.
HOW DO YOU SEE THEM?
>> WELL, I THINK EVERYONE
SUPPORTS POLICIES THAT WOULD
PROMOTE CLEAN AIR AND CLEAN
WATER BURKS WHEN -- WATER BUT
WHEN YOU PUT SOMETHING FORTH OF
THIS MAGNITUDIT
LEGAL, AND THIS ADMINISTRATION
HAS PROBABLY GONE FURTHER THAN
WE'VE EVER SEEN IN PUSHING FORTH
A RADICAL, ILLEGAL PROPOSAL BY
WE DON'T THINK LILT WILL
WITHSTAND SCRUTINY IN THE COURT.
YOU HAVE TO MAKE SURE YOU DO
THIS THE RIGHT WAY AND THEY'RE
TAKING THE CLEAN AIR ACT AND
E.P.A. WHICH ARE ENVIRONMENTAL
REGULATORS AND TURNING THEM INTO
CENTRAL ENERGY PLANNERS.
THAT'S NOT ALLOWED UNDER THE
STATUTE AND THE CONSTITUTION
WHICH IS WHY WE PLAN TO
CHALLENGE IT.
>> Woodruff: ALL THE REPORTING
WE HAVE BEEN READING THIS
MORNING SAYS THAT THE
ADMINISTRATION HAS GONE THE
EXTRA MILE IN THE LAST MONTH OR
TWO TO TRY TO MAKE SURE THAT
THESE NEW RULES DO COMPLY WITH
THE LAW.
>> I THINK YOU WILL HEAR A LOT
OF ARGUMENTS ABOUT SOME OF THE
CHANGES THEY HAVE MADE, BUT
THERE ARE A COUPLE OF
UNASSAILABLE FACTS.
FIRST, THE CLEAN AIR ACT REALLY
PROHIBITS DOUBLE REGULATION OF
COAL FIRE POWER PLANTS.
THEY'RE ALREADY DOING THAT IN
ONE CONTEXT, WHICH MEANS THEY
CAN'T COME BACK AND DO IT IN
ANOTHER.
THE SECOND PART WHICH IS LIKELY
CRITICAL IS THAT THE E.P.A. AND
THE CLEAN AIR ACT, THEY'RE
DESIGNED TO REGULATE THE COAL
FIRE POWER PLANTS.
THEY CAN'T FORCE OR TRY TO
INCENTIVIZE STATES IN ORDER TO
PUT FORM OTHER FORMS OF ENERGY
AND TO FORCE STATES TO NO LONGER
MANAGE THEIR ENERGY PORTFOLIOS.
THIS IS A REAL PROBLEM.
THEY'RE ON VERY THIN LEGAL ICE.
I THINK THAT THE STATUTE THE
VERY CLEAR.
THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT HAS A
ROLE TO REGULATE POWER PLANTS.
THE STATES TYPICALLY MANAGE
THEIR ENERGY PORTFOLIOS.
>> LET ME ASK YOU ABOUT SOME OF
THE SUBSTANCE OF THIS.
AS OF TWO YEARS AGO, IT'S MY
UNDERSTANDING POWER PLANTS
ACROSS THE COUNTRY WERE
RESPONSIBLE FOR 30% OF
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS.
THAT BEING CASE, SHOULDN'T THEY
BE TARGETED FOR SIGNIFICANT
S?T
>> I THINK ANYTIME YOU TALKED
ABOUT WHETHER THERE WAS A POLICY
GOAL TO TARGET A PARTICULAR
POWER PLANT, THAT'S A DEBATE
BEST LEFT TO CONGRESS.
I THINK THAT IF CONGRESS GOT
TOGETHER AND DECIDED WHAT THEY
WANTED TO REGULATE, THEY MAY BE
PERFECTLY APPROPRIATE.
THAT'S NOT WHAT'S HAPPENED HERE.
RIGHT NOW, YOU HAVE UNELECTED
BUREAUCRATS THAT ARE REACHING
OUT TO SOME REALLY RADICAL LEGAL
INTERPRETATIONS IN ORDER TO HAVE
A SWEEPING TRANSFORMATION OF THE
AMERICAN ECONOMY.
I THINK THE AMERICAN PEOPLE
DESERVE BETTER THAN TO JUST HAVE
A FEW BUREAUCRATS TRY TO COME UP
WITH A CREATIVE NEW LEGAL
MECHANISM IN ORDER TO DO SO MUCH
FUNDAMENTAL CHANGE.
LET'S HAVE A REAL DEBATE IN
CONGRESS.
KEEP IN MIND, THIS HAS NOT BEEN
DONE THROUGH CONGRESSIONAL
ACTION.
THIS IS DONE THROUGH THE E.P.A.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, LET ME ASK
YOU ABOUT SOME OF THE SUBSTANCE
HERE, MR. ATTORNEY GENERAL.
YOU TALK ABOUT IT BEING DROWN
UP, IN YOUR WORDS, BY RADICAL
BUREAUCRATS.
BUT IN LOOKING AT IT, WE KNOW,
ACCORDING TO THIS PLAN, STATES
CAN WORK IN CONJUNCTION WITH
ANOTHERRERS, IN COMPLIANCE AND,
SECOND OF ALL, WE KNOW POWER
PLANT EMISSIONS HAVE ALREADY
DROPPED MORE THAN 15% OVER THE
LAST TEN YEARS, WHICH IS, WHAT,
HALF OF WHERE THEY WOULD HAVE TO
BE UNDER THIS PLAN.
SO YOU'RE ALREADY MORE THAN
HALFWAY THERE.
IS THIS REALLY AS RADICAL AS
WHAT YOU'RE SAYING?
>> I THINK IT IS FOR A NUMBER OF
REASONS.
FIRST OF ALL, I KNOW, IN MY HOME
STATE OF WEST VIRGINIA, THERE
ARE SO MANY JOBS THAT HAVE BEEN
LOST AND, IN ADDITION, WE'RE
STARTING TO SEE ELECTRICITY
PRICES SO, AND THAT'S COMMON
SENSE BECAUSE IF YOU RETIRE COAL
FIRE POWER PLANTS BEFORE
BASELINE AND BUILD OTHER
NON-COAL FIRE POWER PLANTS,
CONSUMERS, RATE PAYERS WILL HAVE
TO FAY DIFFERENCE.
THE OTHER PROBLEM IS EVEN IF YOU
AGREE WITH THE POLICY GOALS OF
THIS PRESIDENT, WHAT THEY'RE
TRYING TO DO LEGALLY BY TAKING
THE E.P.A. WHICH IS HISTORICALLY
REGULATED ENVIRONMENTAL
REGULATION AND COAL FIRE POWER
PLANTS AND NOW ARE INNOVATING
THE STATES' PLACE.
STATES TRADITIONALLY MANAGE
THEIR OWN ENERGY POR PORTFOLIOS.
THAT'S NOT WHAT'S HAPPENING HERE
BECAUSE THE TARGETS ARE SO
SEVERE IT'S GOING TO BE
DIFFICULT FOR ANYONE TO MEET IT
AND THE E.P.A. WHRAK LACKS THE
AUTHORITY IN THE FIRST PLACE.
>> Woodruff: ARE YOU SAYING IF
THE SAME RULES HAD BEEN
PROMULGATED BY CONGRESS THAT
THEY WOULD BE ACCEPTABLE TO YOU
AND THE STATE OF WEST VIRGINIA?
>> NO, I'M SAYING THAT, AT A
MINIMUM, THE AMERICAN PUBLIC
DESERVES TO HAVE A ROBUST DEBATE
AND CONGRESS ENGAGE IN THIS BACK
AND FORTH AS OPPOSED TO E.P.A.
WHEN IT REALLY LACKS LEGAL
AUTHORITY TO DO SO.
THE AMERICAN PUBLIC INSYSTEMSES
PUBLIC OFFICIALS ADHERE TO THE
RULE OF LAW, AND WHEN YOU START
GOING OFF AND USING REALLY
UNPRECEDENTED LEGAL ARGUMENTS IN
ORDER TO JUSTIFY YOUR PROPOSAL,
I THINK YOU START TO --
>> Woodruff: JUST QUICKLY TO
INTERRUPT HERE IN THE END,
DIDN'T THE SUPREME COURT SAY THE
E.P.A. DOES HAVE THE
AUTHORITYISH TO SHOE THESE KIND
OF REGULARSLATIONS?
>> WELL, IN 2007, THERE WAS A
SAYS MASSACHUSETTS V. E.P.A.
WHERE THE SUPREME COURT SAID
THERE IS SOME AVAILABILITY WITH
REGARD TO CARBON DIOXIDE BUT YOU
HAVE TO POINT TO A STATUTE, YOU
CAN'T MAKE IT UP.
WHAT THE ADMINISTRATION HAS DONE
IS NOT TETHERED TO THE STATUTE
WE THINK WHAT THEY'RE DOING IS
CLEARLY ILLEGAL, NOT
APPROPRIATELY TIED BACK IN TO
THE SUPREME COURT DECISION AND
THAT'S WHY I THINK WE FEEL GOOD
ABOUT OUR LEGAL ARGUMENTS AND
HAVE A GROWING COALITION OF
STATES ON A BIPARTISAN BASIS
AMONG WITH MINERS, CONSUMERS,
BUSINESSES WHO KNOW JUST HOW
SIGNIFICANT THIS RULE IS AND HOW
DAMAGING IT WOULD BE TO OUR
COUNTRY.
>> Woodruff: PATRICK
MORRISSEY, ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR
THE STATE OF WEST VIRGINIA, WE
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> Ifill: A WILDFIRE SWEPT
THROUGH PARTS OF NORTHERN
CALIFORNIA FOR A SIXTH DAY,
CONSUMING MORE THAN 60,000 ACRES
ALREADY, 20,000 OF THEM IN A
FIVE-HOUR SPAN OVER THE WEEKEND.
ALL OF THIS IS OCCURRING AS THE
GOLDEN STATE, AND MOST OF THE
WESTERN PART OF THE COUNTRY,
DEAL WITH DROUGHT AND AN
ESPECIALLY DANGEROUS FIRE
SEASON.
JEFFREY BROWN HAS THE STORY.
>> Brown: IT'S THE LARGEST OF
ROUGHLY 20 FIRES BURNING
THROUGHOUT DROUGHT-STRICKEN
CALIFORNIA.
THE SO-CALLED ROCKY FIRE HAS
CONSUMED TWO DOZEN HOMES,
THREATENED HUNDREDS MORE AND PUT
AT LEAST 12,000 PEOPLE UNDER
EVACUATION WARNINGS.
>> IT'S LIKE BEING IN ANOTHER
WORLD.
IT'S THE SMELLS, THE EMBERS.
I MEAN, IT'S STILL BURNING HERE.
>> DOOMSDAY.
THAT'S WHAT IT LOOKED LIKE, KIND
OF.
IT LOOKED LIKE, IT LOOKED LIKE A
MUSHROOM CLOUD THAT CAME FROM A
NUCLEAR EXPLOSION KIND OF.
>> Brown: THE FIRE, ABOUT 100
MILES NORTH OF SAN FRANCISCO,
TRIPLED IN SIZE OVER THE
WEEKEND, TO 93 SQUARE MILES.
NATIONAL GUARD HELICOPTERS
BATTLED THE BLAZE FROM THE AIR,
WHILE NEARLY 3,000 FIREFIGHTERS
FOUGHT THE FLAMES ON THE GROUND.
COOLER, WETTER WEATHER HELPED
CREWS GAIN GROUND TODAY, BUT THE
BIG FIRE IS STILL ONLY 12%
CONTAINED.
CAL-FIRE SPOKESMAN STEVE
KAUFMANN CALLED IT
UNPRECEDENTED.
I'VE TALKED TO FIREFIGHTER
WITH 20, 30, 40 YEARS ON THE JOB
IN THE FIRE SERVICE, AND THEY'VE
SAID THAT THIS IS SOME OF THE
MOST EXTREME FIRE BEHAVIOR
THEY'VE EVER SEEN IN THEIR
CAREER.
THE FIELDS ARE SO TENDER AND
DRY, THEY'RE REAL RECEPTIVE TO
FIRE AND WHEN WE DO HAVE FIRE IN
THE VEGETATION, IT SEEMS TO MOVE
PRETTY FAST, MORE UNPREDICTABLY
THAN WE'VE SEEN BEFORE.
>> Brown: MEANWHILE, FIRES IN
OTHER PARTS OF CALIFORNIA HAVE
KILLED ONE FIREFIGHTER AND
INJURED FOUR OTHERS IN RECENT
DAYS.
WILDFIRES HAVE ALSO ERUPTED IN
OREGON AND WASHINGTON STATE,
FUELED BY DROUGHT AND SUMMER
HEAT.
THIS NASA IMAGE SHOWS SMOKE FROM
SEVERAL FIRES RISING YESTERDAY
OVER OREGON AND NORTHERN
CALIFORNIA.
AND AS IF ALL THAT WEREN'T
ENOUGH, THERE'VE BEEN INCIDENTS
OF PRIVATE DRONE AIRCRAFT
INTERFERING WITH FIRE-FIGHTING
PLANES, AND EVEN FORCING THEM
OUT OF THE AIR.
>> SO WE NEED TO BE SMART, WHEN
USING DRONES, IF YOU SEE OUR
AIRCRAFT IN THE AIR, DON'T FLY
YOUR DRONES, IT'S ONLY GOING TO
HAMPER OUR OPERATIONS.
>> Brown: OFFICIALS IN SAN
BERNARDINO, CALIFORNIA ARE NOW
OFFERING A $75,000 DOLLAR REWARD
FOR INFORMATION ON ANYONE
WHOSE DRONE HINDERS
FIREFIGHTERS.
>> Woodruff: STAY WITH US.
COMING UP ON THE NEWSHOUR:
SEEKING SUPPORT FOR THE IRAN
NUCLEAR DEAL FROM LEADERS IN THE
MIDDLE EAST.
AND, IN SUDAN, AID WORKERS AND
CIVILIANS CAUGHT IN THE MIDDLE
OF A BATTLE BETWEEN GOVERNMENT
TROOPS AND REBEL GROUPS.
>> Ifill: THE POLITICAL SEASON
HEADS INTO OVERDRIVE THIS WEEK,
WITH A CANDIDATE'S FORUM IN NEW
HAMPSHIRE TONIGHT, AND WITH A
FULL SCALE DEBATE THURSDAY NIGHT
IN CLEVELAND.
THE DEBATE, SPONSORED BY FOX
NEWS, WILL FEATURE THE TOP TEN
OF THE 17 MAJOR CANDIDATES.
WHO GETS ON STAGE WILL BE
DETERMINED BY AVERAGING POLLS.
AS OF TODAY, FIVE CANDIDATES
SEEM GUARANTEED A SPOT: DONALD
TRUMP, JEB BUSH, SCOTT WALKER,
RAND PAUL AND MARCO RUBIO.
ANOTHER THREE LOOK HIGHLY LIKELY
TO MAKE THE CUT: TED CRUZ, MIKE
HUCKABEE AND BEN CARSON.
THAT LEAVES THREE OTHERS TO
FIGHT FOR THE TWO REMAINING
SPOTS: CHRIS CHRISTIE, RICK
PERRY AND JOHN KASICH.
WHAT BETTER TIME FOR POLITICS
MONDAY?
TONIGHT, WITH TAMARA KEITH OF
NPR AND SUSAN PAGE OF "USA
TODAY."
WELCOME TO YOU BOTH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: SO THERE IS AN
ELEPHANT IN THE ROOM AS WE
ALWAYS DISCUSS ON MONDAY NIGHTS.
HIS NAME IS DONALD TRUMP.
LET'S GET PAST THAT FOR A
MOMENT.
WHAT DO THESE CANDIDATES HAVE TO
ACCOMPLISH ON THE STAGE THURSDAY
NIGHT TO BREAK THROUGH?
>> I THINK THEY HAVE DIFFERENT
AGENDAS FACING THEM.
I THINK FOR JEB BUSH, HE WANTS
TO LOOK PRESIDENTIAL, AN
ALTERNATIVE TO DONALD TRUMP.
I THINK MARCO RUBIO WHO'S FADED
FROM THE SCENE, HE NEEDS TO RIA
CERT HIMSELF AS A PLAYER.
SCOTT WALKER NEEDS TO WORK ON
FOREIGN POLICY, LAST TIME HE HAD
STUMBLES AND MISSTEPS.
SO DIFFERENT PLAYERS HAVE
DIFFERENT THINGS THEY NEED TO
DO.
>> Ifill: IS THERE ANYTHING
DONALD TRUMP NEED TO DO?
>> I THINK HE NEEDS TO HAVE FUN
BECAUSE THAT'S WHAT DONALD TRUMP
IS THERE TO DO.
I THINK THE QUESTION IS WHAT
THESE CANDIDATES DO WITH DONALD
TRUMP.
I WAS DOING A LITTLE MATH.
THE THOUGHT IS, WITH COMMERCIALS
AND EVERYTHING ELSE, YOU WILL
GET ABOUT 90 MINUTES OF ACTUAL
TALKING TIME FOR CANDIDATES,
THERE ARE TEN OF THEM.
THAT MEANS, BEST CASE SCENARIO,
THEY MIGHT EACH GET NINE
MINUTES.
HOW MANY OF THE NINE MINUTES DO
THEY WANT TO CEDE TO DONALD
TRUMP?
IT'S A BIG QUESTION.
I THINK A LOT OF THEM WANT TO BE
SUBSTANTIVE IN THEIR NINE
MINUTES OR STAND OUT IN SOME
WAY, AND IT WILL BE A QUESTION
AS TO WHETHER DONALD TRUMP WILL
LET THEM.
>> Ifill: IT'S INTERESTING
BECAUSE THE RULES TO GET ON THE
STAGE ARE IMPORTANT.
THE NAMES WE JUST THREW OUT
THERE ARE NOT BY ANY MEANS
OFFICIAL YET.
SO THOSE IN THE BUBBLE, THOSE
WHO SAY JOHN KASICH OR CHRIS
CHRISTIE, ONE OR THE OTHER OF
THEM MIGHT MAKE IT, HOW
IMPORTANT IS IT THE FIRST OF THE
NINE DEBATES THEY MAKE IT?
>> I THINK IT'S IMPORTANT.
I THINK IT MAKES YOU LOOK MORE
SERIOUS THAN IF YOU MAKE THE
PREVIOUS FOUR THAT FOX IS GOING
TO HAVE AT 5:00 WITH THE PEOPLE
WHO DON'T QUITE MAKE THE CUT.
>> Ifill: MIKE HUCKABEE, TED
CRUZ.
>> RIGHT.
I THINK IT'S FOR THEM
TO SHOW THEY'RE GOING TO BE PART
OF THE MAIN.
WE KNOW THAT TRADITIONALLY
THERE'S MOMENT THAT ENCAPSULATES
THE DEBATE.
I'M PREDICTINGT LYNN
CLUED TRUMP.
>> Ifill: NO.
SHE'S OUT ON THE EDGE.
>> THIS ISRAZY C.
SOMEONE SAYS TO DONALD TRUMP,
AND ESPECIALLY FOR THE
CANDIDATES WHO ARE NOT IN THAT
FIRST TWO OR THREE, FOR THEM TO
BE PART OF THAT MOMENT WOULD BE
A BREAK THROUGH, IT WOULD BE
SOMETHING THAT WOULD MAKE US PAY
MORE ATTENTION TO THEM.
>> Ifill: IF YOU'RE JOHN
KASICH, THE GOVERNOR OF OHIO WHO
ONLY GOT IN THE RACE A COUPLE OF
WEEKS AGO, JUST BEING ON THE
STAGE MIGHT BE A BIG ENOUGH
BREAKTHROUGH ON ITS OWN.
>> AND IN YOUR HOME STATE TO BE
ON THAT STAGE.
HE WANTS TO BE THERE,
ABSOLUTELY.
YOU KNOW, THEY WILL FIND OTHER
WAYS, THOUGH.
THE CANDIDATES AT THE KIDS'
TABLE WILL FIND A WAY TO STABBED
OUT AT THE KIDS' TABLE DEBATE.
THERE IS ANOTHER FORUM TONIGHT,
TWO MORE HOURS OF POTENTIAL TO
STAND OUT, AND EVERY SUNDAY
SHOW.
THERE ARE IN OPPORTUNITIES, BUT,
OF COURSE, ESPECIALLY FOR
REPUBLICAN CANDIDATES ON FOX
NEWS, THIS DEBATE IS A BIG
MOMENT.
>> Ifill: TODAY WE SAW HILLARY
CLINTON -- OR OVER THE
WEEKEND -- COME OUT WITH A
COUPLE OF ADS WHICH ARE THE TYPE
OF ADS YOU SEE RUN BY PEOPLE
YOU'VE NEVER HEARD OF BEFORE.
HILLARY CLINTON IS RUNNING THESE
BY GRAPHICAL ADS.
YOU SEE THE OLD PICTURES OF HER
FROM THE EARLY DAYS OF THE
CHILDREN'S DEFENSE FUND,
GOVERNOR, FIRST LADY OF
ARKANSAS, MARRIED TO BILL
CLINTON, OBVIOUSLY.
WHY ARE WE DOING THAT AT THIS
STAGE?
>> HER CAMPAIGN AND GOOD FRIENDS
FEEL LIKE HILLARY CLINTON IS THE
CANDIDATE EVERYONE THINKS THEY
KNOW BUT NOBODY REALLY KNOWS,
AND, SO, THEY HAVE ROLLED OUT
THE BIOGRAPHICAL DETAILS IN HER
SPEECHES BUT THAT HASN'T REALLY
BROKEN THROUGH.
THE HEADLINES ARE STILL ABOUT
THE E-MAILS AND THE CLINTON
FOUNDATION AND THE E-MAILS
AGAIN.
SO THEY'RE LOOKING FOR THE
EARLY, PRIMARY AND CAUCUS VOTERS
AND SAY WITH A SOFT FOCUS,
HERE'S THE HILLARY CLINTON WE
WANT YOU TO KNOW WITHOUT THE
FILTER.
>> Ifill: THE OTHER THING
HILLARY CLINTON HAS DONE IN THE
PAST FEW DAYS IS GO AFTER JEB
BUSH WHO SHE CLEARLY THINKS IS
FIRST, TODAY, ON PLANNED
PARENTHOOD AND WHETHER PLANNED
PARENTHOOD SHOULD BE DEFUNDED
AND -- I FORGET WHAT IT WAS BUT
SHE WENT AFTER HIM LAST WEEK AS
WELL.
WHAT IS IT SHE'S DOING THAT FOR?
>> SHE'S APPARENTLY CONCLUDED
DONALD TRUMP IS NOT GOING TO BE
THE REPUBLICAN NOMINEE AND THE
MOST LIKELY IS JEB BUSH AND SO
WHY NOT GO AFTER HIM NOW.
SHE CERTAINLY DOESN'T WANT TO GO
AFTER HER DEMOCRATIC RIVALS WHO
ARE NOT IN A POSITION TO DENY
HER THE NOMINATION, AT LEAST NOT
AT THIS POINT.
SO I THINK SHE'S LOOKING A
LITTLE GENERAL
ELECTION BUT IT'S INTERESTING TO
GO BACK TO THE AUTOBIOGRAPHICAL
ADS.
THE ONE FOCUSED ON HER MOTHER IS
QUITE TOUCHING.
IT MAKES HER LOOK, IT GOES TO
WHAT HER MOTIVATION HAS BEEN,
AND IN WORKING FOR KIDS AS SHE
DID PARTICULARLY IN HER EARLY
YEARS AS A LAWYER, AND I THINK
THAT DOES SHOW A SIDE OF HILLARY
CLINTON THAT EVEN PEOPLE WHO
KNOW HER PRETTY WELL HAVEN'T
REALLY SEEN BEFORE AND IT'S
SOMETHING I THINK SHE DOESN'T DO
WELL HERSELF ON STAGE WHEN SHE'S
TALKING ABOUT IT, BUT WHEN YOU
HAVE THE PICTURES NARRATED BY
HILLARY CLINTON, I THINK IT IS A
DIFFERENT KIND OF PICTURE OF
HILLARY CLINTON THAN WE'VE SEEN.
>> Ifill: THE PERSON WHO
FOCUSED IN THE POLITICAL CHAT
WORLD BUT NOT ON ANYONE'S BALLOT
IS JOE BIDEN, THE
VICE PRESIDENT, AND QUESTIONS
ABOUT WHETHER JOE BIDEN AND
WHETHER HE SHOULD, COULD OR
WOULD RUN FOR PRESIDENT AT THIS
LATE STAGE IN THE DEBATE.
WHAT HAVE YOU HEARD IN.
>> WELL, OBVIOUSLY, THERE HAS
BEEN REPORTING HIS SON, AS HE
WAS DYING, SAID, DAD, YOU SHOULD
RUN.
WHAT I'M GETTING IS NOT ANYTHING
THAT CONCRETE.
WHAT I'M HEARING FROM PEOPLE IS
THAT, SURE, THERE ARE FEELERS
BEING PUT OUT BY PEOPLE WHO ARE
CLOSE TO JOE BIDEN.
THE QUESTION, THOUGH, IS ARE
FEELERS ENOUGH?
I MEAN, HILLARY CLINTON, AT THIS
POINT, HAS A 50-STATE ORGANIZING
STRATEGY.
SHE HAS 40 OFFICES, 49 OFFICES
IN IOWA.
BERNIE SANDERS HAS SOMETHING
LIKE 40 ORGANIZERS IN IOWA.
THERE'S A LOT OF INFRASTRUCTURE
THAT JOE BIDEN DOESN'T YET HAVE
BECAUSE HE HASN'T YET DECIDED
WHAT HE'S DOING.
>> Ifill: HOW SERIOUS TROUBLE
IS IT?
>> WE KNOW IF JOE BIDEN WANTS TO
RUN, HE WILL.
HIS HEAD TOLD HIM AT LEAST THIS
FAR HE CAN'T, THERE'S NOT AN
OPENING.
HILLARY CLINTON IS NOT
BELEAGUERED AMONG DEMOCRATS.
DEMOCRATS LIKE HILLARY CLINTON,
THEY'RE EXCITED ABOUT THE IDEA
OF NOMINATING THE FIRST WOMAN.
>> Ifill: QUESTION IS WHETHER
SHE CAN BEAT THE REPUBLICAN IN
THE FALL.
>> IF SHE IMPLODED IN A MORE
SERIOUS WAY THAN SO FAR, JOE
BIDEN WOULD LOVE TO BE THE
PERSON RUSHING IN THERE, BUT
IT'S HARD TO SEE THE OPENING
BEING THERE FOR HIM AT THIS
TIME.
>> Ifill: ALWAYS A GOOD THING
TO KEEP YOUR NAME IN THE AIR.
SUSAN PAGE, TAMARA KEITH, AS
ALWAYS, THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: SECRETARY OF STATE
JOHN KERRY WAS IN THE PERSIAN
GULF TODAY, TRYING TO SELL THE
IRAN NUCLEAR DEAL TO GULF ARAB
ALLIES.
PUBLICLY, AT LEAST, THE MISSION
SEEMED LIKED AN EASIER LIFT THAN
HIS RECENT TO VISITS TO CAPITOL
HILL
BUT OPPOSITION IN SOME PARTS OF
THE REGION REMAINS STRONG.
KERRY ARRIVED IN QATAR, WITH THE
MESSAGE THAT A NUCLEAR DEAL
MIGHT CHANGE IRAN'S AGGRESSIVE
ACTIONS IN NEIGHBORING STATES.
>> OBVIOUSLY WE ALL KNOW ABOUT
THE SUPPORT FOR HEZBOLLAH, THE
SUPPORT FOR SHIA MILITIA IN
IRAQ, THE SUPPORT FOR THE HOUTHI
IN YEMEN AND OTHER INVOLVEMENTS
IN THE REGION, SUPPORT FOR
TERROR, HISTORICALLY, WHICH WE
HAVE OPPOSED AND WE CONTINUE TO
OPPOSE AND WE WILL OPPOSE GOING
FORWARD IN THE FUTURE.
>> Woodruff: PRIVATELY, MANY OF
THE GULF ARAB LEADERS WHO MET
WITH KERRY HAVE EXPRESSED FEAR
THAT A NUCLEAR DEAL WILL ONLY
EMBOLDEN IRAN.
BUT PUBLICLY, AT LEAST, THE
QATARI FOREIGN MINISTER OFFERED
MOSTLY SUPPORT.
MOSTLY SUPPORT. >> (
translated): MR. KERRY
LET
>> (translated): MR.
KERRY LET US KNOW THAT THERE'S
GOING TO BE
US KNOW THAT THERE'S GOING TO BE
A KIND OF LIVE OVERSIGHT FOR
IRAN NOT TO GAIN OR TO GET ANY
NUCLEAR WEAPONS.
THIS IS REASSURING TO THE
REGION.
WE HOPE THAT WE ARE GOING TO
HAVE A KIND OF A BAN OF NUCLEAR
WEAPONS NOT ONLY TO IRAN, BUT TO
ALL THE MIDDLE EAST.
>> Woodruff: BEFORE HIS STOP IN
QATAR, KERRY HAD BEEN IN EGYPT.
HE SKIPPED ISRAEL, WHERE PRIME
MINISTER BENJAMIN NETANYAHU HAS
BEEN OUTSPOKEN IN CONDEMNING THE
IRAN PACT.
IRAN PACT. >> (
translated): THE DEAL
>> (translated): THE
DEAL PERMITS IRAN TO BUILD AS
MANY
PERMITS IRAN TO BUILD AS MANY
CENTRIFUGES AS IT WANTS AND TO
ENRICH AS MUCH URANIUM AS IT
WANTS, WHICH MEANS THAT IRAN
COULD BREAK-UP IN A DECADE OR SO
TO DOZENS OF NUCLEAR BOMBS IN
ZERO TIME.
>> Woodruff: DEFENSE SECRETARY
ASH CARTER DID VISIT ISRAEL LAST
MONTH, BUT NETANYAHU WAS NOT
MOLLIFIED.
THE ISRAELI LEADER PLANS TO
ADDRESS AMERICAN WISHJE
COMMUNITIES IN A WEBCAST
TOMORROW.
MEANWHILE, KERRY TRAVELS ON TO
EAST ASIA, WHERE HE'LL FOCUS ON
CONCERNS ABOUT CHINA'S PURSUIT
OF TERRITORIAL CLAIMS IN THE
REGION.
WE TAKE CLOSER LOOK NOW AT THE
REACTION TO THE IRAN DEAL IN THE
MIDDLE EAST.
I'M JOINED BY FORMER JORDANIAN
FOREIGN MINISTER, MARWAN
MUASHER.
DAVID MAKOVSKY OF THE WASHINGTON
INSTITUTE FOR NEAR EAST POLICY.
AND, FAHAD NAZER, A FORMER
POLITICAL ANALYST AT THE EMBASSY
OF SAUDI ARABIA IN WASHINGTON.
GENTLEMEN, WE WE CANAL YOU ALL.
MARWAN MUASHER, TO YOU FIRST,
WHAT IS THE REACTION IN GENERAL
TO THIS DEAL IN JORDAN?
>> THE REACTION IN THE MIDDLE
EAST IN GENERAL, NOT JUST IN
JORDAN, IS, ON THE ONE SIDE, A
SIGN OF RELIEF THAT THE REGION
IS GOING TO BE AVOIDING A WAR
WITH CATASTROPHIC RESULTS.
ON THE OTHER SIDE, THERE IS
CONCERN ABOUT IRAN'S ROLE IN THE
REGION AND WHAT AN ENHANCED OR
AN ADDED FINANCIAL RESOURCES
THAT WILL BECOME AVAILABLE TO
IRAN, WHAT THAT MIGHT MEAN IN
TERMS OF IRAN AND ITS ROLE IN
SUCH PLACES ASSYRIA OR YEMEN OR
OTHER PLACES IN THE MIDDLE EAST.
>> Woodruff: FAHAD NAZER, WHAT
ABOUT YOUR PERCEPTION.
>> I THINK ONE SHOULD DRAW A
DISTINCTION BETWEEN THE OFFICIAL
GOVERNMENT POSITION AND THE
PREVAILING SENTIMENT.
INITIALLY, THE GOVERNMENT ISSUED
A RATHER INNOCUOUS-SOUNDING
STATEMENT THAT THAT WAS READ AS
AS A TACET ENDORSEMENT BACK ON
JULY 14.
SINCE THEN, OBVIOUSLY, THE
FOREIGN MINISTER
U.S. OFFICIALS INCLUDING
PRESIDENT OBAMA AND SECRETARY
KERRY.
DOCTOR CARTER WAS IN
SAUDI ARABIAIA TWO WEEKS AGO AND
SINCE THEN THE POSITION HAS
SHIFTED SLIGHTLY BUT IN A
SIGNIFICANT FASHION.
THE FOREIGN MINISTER AFTER
MEETING SECRETARY CARTER SAID
WHILE WE ARE STILL IN
CONSULTATION WITH THE U.S.
GOVERNMENT THAT THE AGREEMENT
DOES SEEM TO ADDRESS OUR CORNS.
>> Woodruff: SO A SENSE OF
REASSURANCE?
>> DEED.
AS I SAID, AT THE OUTSET THE
PREVAILING IS DIFFERENT FROM THE
OFFICIAL POSITION.
THERE ARE MANY INSIDERS
SPECIFICALLY WHO ARE STILL VERY
CONCERNED ABOUT IRAN'S
INTENTIONS AND, EVEN IN LOOKING
AT THE AGREEMENT, THINK THAT
IRAN IN SOME WAYS WAS REWARDED
FOR ITS BAD BEHAVIOR OVER THE
YEARS.
>> Woodruff: DAVID MAKOVSKY,
WHAT ABOUT THE REACTION IN
ISRAEL?
IS THERE AS MUCH NEGATIVE
REACTION THERE AS PRIME MINISTER
NETANYAHU EXPRESSED?
>> PRIME MINISTER NETANYAHU SET
THE TONE, NO DOUBT.
HIS MAIN POINT IS THE OBJECTIONS
OF THE NEGOTIATIONS PROFOUNDLY
SHIFTED FROM TRYING TO ELIMINATE
THE IRANIAN NUCLEAR PROGRAM TO
MERELY DEFERRING IT,.
AS YOU KNOW, HE'S BEEN VERY
VOCAL IN THAT REGARD.
HE MADE THE POINT MARWAN JUST
MADE ABOUT THE CASH INFUSION OF
THE REGION AS A RESULT OF THE
NEW STATUS, UNLOCKING OF THEIR
BANK ACCOUNTS THAT WOULD LEAD TO
REALLY PERHAPS BILLIONS OF
DOLLARS FOR THEIR ALLIES TO
ENGAGE IN DESTABILIZING
ACTIVITIES AND BOLD IRANIAN
INFLUENCE IN THE REGION.
THE PUBLIC, IF YOU LOOK AT THE
POLLS, THE POLLING DATA SHOW
THAT YOU'VE GOT ABOUT 70 TO
80 PERCENT OPPOSED, 10 PERCENT
APPROVED AND ABOUT THE SAME
PERCENTAGE IRAN'S GOING TO GET A
NUCLEAR WEAPON UNDER THIS DEAL.
AND THE REASON WHY IT'S SO
STRONG IS NOT JUST BECAUSE OF
NETANYAHU'S DOMINANCE AS A
LEADER, BUT BECAUSE THEY HEAR
THE AYATOLLAH'S STATEMENT, I
WANT TO ANNIHILATE ISRAEL, AND
NOT JUST RHETORICALLY FEEL THEY
HAVE BEEN ON THE RECEIVING END
OF BOMBS FROM HESBOLLAH IN 2006
AND ROUNDS WITH HAMAS SUBSEQUENT
TO THAT.
>> Woodruff: I WANT TO COME
BACK TO MARWAN MUASHER AND THE
POINT I THINK ALL THREE OF YOU
WERE REFLECTING IN WAY, THE
WORRY IRAN WILL USE THE MONEY IT
GETS FROM UNFREEZING ITS ASSETS
TO CREATE MORE MISCHIEF IN THE
REGION.
I'M SURE YOU KNOW U.S. OFFICIALS
ARE SAYING THIS IS A CONCERN,
THAT THE U.S. IS ALREADY
PREPARED FOR IT, THAT IT'S
ILLEGAL FOR IRAN TO DO IT ANYWAY
AND IF THEY START TO ENGAGE IN
THIS TYPE OF BEHAVIOR THE U.S.
WILL PUSH BACK.
>> YES, IRAN'S ROLE IN THE
REGION HAS NOT BEEN PART OF THE
NEGOTIATIONS OVER THE NUCLEAR
FIGHT AND THAT REMAINS THE
WEAKEST PART OF THE AGREEMENT.
I STILL THINK THE UNBALANCED
AGREEMENT IS STILL A GOOD ONE
BECAUSE THE LACK OF AN AGREEMENT
WOULD PROBABLY HAVE LED TO A WAR
THAT WOULD NOT HAVE STOPPED THE
IRANIAN NUCLEAR PROGRAM AND, IN
FACT, MAY HAVE ENCOURAGED THAT.
HAVING SAID THAT, BECAUSE THE
NEGOTIATIONS DID NOT INVOLVE
IRAN'S ROLE IN THE REGION, THAT
REMAINS THE PRINCIPAL CONCERN OF
THE COUNTRIES AMONG THE REGION,
IS IRAN GOING TO USE THE THAT
EXTRA MONEY FOR MORE MISCHIEF
AND WHAT LEVERAGE DOES THE U.S.
HAVE TO PREVENT IRAN FROM USING
THAT EXTRA MONEY.
THAT REMAINS THE CONCERN.
IT IS NOT -- YOU KNOW, I DON'T
THINK THAT COUNTRIES OF THE GULF
ARE ASKING NECESSARILY THE
UNITED STATES FOR MORE ARMS, FOR
MORE SECURITY ARRANGEMENTS.
THEY SAID THEY DO NOT INTEND TO
GET INTO A WAR WITH IRAN BUT
THEY'RE ASKING FOR ASSURANCES
THAT IRAN'S ROLE IS NOT GOING TO
BE ENHANCED IN THE REGION AND,
FRANKLY, I'M NOT SURE HOW THE
UNITED STATES CAN GIVE SUCH
ASSURANCES TO COUNTRIES OF THE
GULF, IN PARTICULAR.
>> WELL, A COUPLE OF POINTS, AND
I'LL COME TO FAHAD NAZER ON THAT
BECAUSE U.S. OFFICIALS HAVE
ADDRESSED THIS.
THEY SAY IF IRAN DOES THIS, THE
U.S. WILL PUSH BACK IN CONCERT
WITH OTHER NATIONS.
THEY'VE SAID IF NECESSARY, THEY
WILL BEEF UP THE ABILITY OF
OTHER COUNTRIES TO DEFEND
THEMSELVES AND THEY'VE ALSO
TALKED ABOUT HOW MUCH MORE MONEY
THAT'S BEEN SPENT BY SCRABBLED,
FOR EXAMPLE, OTHER COUNTRIES
LIKE QATAR THAN IRAN IS
SPENDING.
THEY'RE SAYING THERE IS ALREADY
ENANN IMBALANCE WHICH THE U.S.
IS PREPARED TO READDRESS IF
NECESSARY.
>> I'M NOT SURE ABOUT THAT.
IT'S NOT JUST SAUDI ARABIA OR
THE U.S. THAT HAS EXPRESSED
CONCERN ABOUT WHAT IRAN COULD
POTENTIALLY DO WITH THE BILLIONS
OF DOLLARS WORTH OF UNFROZEN
ASSETS.
THERE IS AT LEAST ONE OFFICIAL
IN U HAS PROVIDED
BASHAR AL-ASSAD REGIME WITH
$6 MILLION ANNUALLY.
SYRIA GOT LOST IN THE
CONVERSATION BUT I THINK SYRIA
REMAINS TO BE THE TOP OF
SAUDI ARABIA'S AGENDA.
I THINK SAUDI ARABIA'S INVESTED
TREMENDOUS POLITICAL CAPITAL IN
SYRIA.
I THINK SYRIA IS THE MAIN SOURCE
OF DESTABILIZATION IN THE REGION
AT THIS POINT, AND I'M SURE THAT
THEY ARE HOPING THAT THE U.S. IS
WELL AWARE OF THAT AND THERE IS
INDICATION THAT SECRETARY KERRY
IS NOW WILLING TO FOCUS MORE ON
SYRIA, NOW THAT THE NUCLEAR
ISSUE IS BEHIND HIM.
>> AND THERE IS SOME INDICATION
OF THAT.
DAVID MAKOVSKY, IS IT CONCERN IN
ISRAEL THAT THE U.S. IS JUST NOT
PREPARED TO PUSH BACK IF IRAN
DOES BEGIN TO BECOME MORE
AGGRESSIVE IN THE REGION?
>> YES, I THINK THAT'S A
CONCERN.
TERMS LIKE BUS PUSHBACK OR OUR A
GAME ARE WORDS THAT GET BAND
IDEA ABOUT AND -- BANDIED ABOUT
AND PEOPLE SAY WHAT DOES THAT
MEAN?
DOES IT MEAN THE BANKS AND
INDIVIDUALS, THE MONEYS GOING
AROUND FOR TERRORIST SANCTIONS,
ARE WE GOING TO SEE THAT
ENHANCED WHEN MONEY GOES TO
HEZBOLLAH L.A. NO ONE'S TALKING
ABOUT A WHOLESALE REIMPOSITION
OF SANCTIONS LIKE THERE IS UNDER
THIS DEAL, BUT THE QUESTION IS
ARE WE GOING TO DO THAT?
ARE WE GOING TO GAUGE
CONTINGENCY PLANNING FOR
INTERDICTION OF SHIPS CARRYING
WEAPONS TO SOME OF IRAN'S
PROXIES?
PEOPLE WANT TO KNOW MORE
SPECIFICS.
I MEAN, JUST TO SAY, WELL, THE
SUNNIS GIVE MORE MONEY AND IRAN
GIVES MONEY, THE MIDDLE EAST IS
GOING TO BE MORE AWASH IN
WEAPONS.
SO THE QUESTION IS, SHORT OF
GIVING MORE WEAPONS TO THE OTHER
SIDE, ARE THERE OTHER THINGS WE
CAN DO VERY SPECIFICALLY THAT
GIVE, YOU KNOW, REAL TEETH TO
THE TERM "PUSHBACK"?
>> Woodruff: COULD I ASK EACH
ONE OF YOU TO COMMENT BRIEFLY ON
WHETHER YOU THINK THE U.S. IS
GOING TO BE ABLE TO ASSUAGE
THESE CONCERNS, ASSUMING
CONGRESS OKAYS THESE DEALS?
MARWAN MUASHER.
>> IT'S GOING TO TAKE A LOT MORE
THAN WHAT THE U.S. IS ALREADY
DOING TO CONVINCE ITS ALLIES IN
THE REGION THERE IS SERIOUS
PUSHBACK AND I FRANKLY HAVE
CONCERN ABOUT THAT GIVEN THE
FACT THAT I THINK OBAMA IS
TRYING TO GET OUT TO HAVE THE
REGION AND NOT BE MORE INVOLVED.
>> Woodruff: DAVID MAKOVSKY?
I THINK WHETHER THIS DEAL
DOES OR DOESN'T HAPPEN, YOU'RE
GOING TO NEED AN UPGRADE
U.S.-ISRAELI SECURITY
RELATIONSHIP.
THIS IS THE MOST TURBULENT
PERIOD THE MIDDLE EAST HAS GONE
THROUGH IN 100 YEARS AND THIS
DEAL WILL ADD TO THE TURBULENCE.
IT'S IMPORTANT THAT THESE TWO
ALLIES THAT ARE BICKERING RIGHT
NOW FIND A WAY TO PUT IT BEHIND
THEM.
>> Woodruff: AND FAHAD NAZER.
THE U.S. HAS BEEN PERSISTENT
AND SOME OF THE EFFORT IS PAYING
OFF.
HOWEVER, I DO THINK SAUDI ARABIA
HAS MAJOR CONCERNS ABOUT IRAN'S
ULTIMATE INTENTIONS FOR THE
REGION.
>> Woodruff: GENTLEMEN, WE
THANK YOU ALL THREE, FAHAD
NAZER, DAVID MAKOVSKY, MARWAN
MUASHER.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: IT'S A LARGELY
FORGOTTEN CONFLICT IN A PART OF
THE WORLD MARKED BY HUNGER AND
POVERTY.
BUT FOR THE PAST THREE YEARS, IN
SUDAN'S SOUTHERN NUBA MOUNTAIN
AND KORDAFAN REGIONS, A WAR HAS
BEEN RAGING.
THE AREA IS CONTROLLED BY
S.P.L.A. REBELS WHO FOUGHT FOR
SOUTH SUDAN IN THE WAR THAT
ENDED IN 2005.
NOW THE REBELS ARE ON THE WRONG
SIDE OF THE NEW BORDER.
AND THEY'VE FOUGHT THE SUDANESE
GOVERNMENT TO A STALEMATE.
THOUSANDS OF CIVILIANS HAVE BEEN
CAUGHT IN THE MIDDLE.
A GROUP OF SUDANESE JOURNALISTS,
KNOWN AS NUBA REPORTS, HAVE BEEN
DOCUMENTING THEIR PLIGHT, AND
HELPED US PRODUCE THE FOLLOWING
REPORT WITH THE NEWSHOUR'S P.J.
TOBIA.
A WARNING: SOME OF THE IMAGES IN
THE STORY MAY BE DISTURBING.
(SINGING)
>> THESE PICTURES WERE SHOT IN
MAY 2014 IN SOUTHERN SUDAN.
A SEEMINGLY PEACEFUL MORNING AT
THE MOTHER OF MERCY HOSPITAL AND
CATHOLIC SCHOOL -- UNTIL THE
PRIEST'S SERMON ENDED SUDDENLY
WITH A RAIN OF BOMBS FROM ABOVE.
STUDENTS TOOK SHELTER IN
DITCHES, SOME FAINTED IN TERROR.
THE NEXT DAY THEY WERE HIT WITH
MORE.
MEDICAL DIRECTOR TO TOM MATINA
TREATED THE WOUNDED.
>> THE FIRST BOMB WAS DROPPED
CLOSE TO THE HOSPITAL.
THEY WERE YELLING AND SCREAMING,
THEN COMING BACK AND DROPPING
THREE MORE BOMBS.
THERE IS NO DOUBT THEY WERE
TARGETING US.
>> Reporter: ACCORDING TO THE
FEW NON-GOVERNMENTAL
ORGANIZATIONS STILL OPERATING IN
THE KORDAFAN REGION, THE SUED
KNEES GOVERNMENT USES CLUSTER
MUNITIONS AND BANNED INACCURATE
PARACHUTE BOMBS.
THIS LANDED IN A VILLAGE IN A
BOMBING RUN THAT KILLED A GIRL
AND WOUNDED OTHERS.
ONE OF THE 400 PATIENTS AT THE
DOCTOR'S HOSPITAL DURING THE
ATTACK IS A WOMAN NAMED AMAL.
>> SINCE I HAVE BEEN HERE, THE
ATTACKS HAVE BEEN CONTINUOUS AND
WE DON'T KNOW WHEN IT WILL STOP
OR WHEN THE ATTACKS WILL START
AGAIN.
WE DON'T KNOW ANYTHING.
>> Reporter: SHE CAME TO
MOTHER OF MERCY HOSPITAL AFTER
THE GOVERNMENT BOMBED HER
VILLAGE, BLOWING OFF HALF HER
LEFT FOOT.
HERE, IN FOOTAGE RECORDED JUST
AFTER THAT ATTACK, HER DAUGHTER
AND NIECE LIE DEAD, KILLED WHILE
THEY SLEPT BESIDE HER.
MOTHER OF MERCY HOSPITAL IS THE
ONLY ONE FOR HUNDREDS OF MILES
IN ANY DIRECTION.
THE SUDANESE GOVERNMENT
BLOCKADED THE REGION PREVENTING
MEDICINES AND OTHER AID FROM
GETTING TO KRODAFAN.
THE GOVERNMENT BAND OTHER
N.G.O.s.
DOCTORS WITHOUT BORDERS IS RUN
OF THE ONLY INTERNATIONAL AID
GROUPS STILL OPERATING IN
KORDAFAN.
IN JUNE, MORE BOMBING.
>> RIGHT WHEN THE PLANE TURNED
AROUND, ALL THE PATIENTS THAT
WERE BED RIDDEN IN THE HOSPITAL
AND THE STAFF CAME RUNNING FROM
OUTSIDE TO THE SHELTERS.
>> Reporter: THE STAFF WERE
TOO SCARED TO RETURN TO THE
CLINIC.
EYTH TREATED THE WOUNDED IN A
DITCH.
AN I.V. BAG HANGS FROM A TREE
TRUNK.
>> THIS BLOOD IS THE BLOOD OF
THE PATIENT HIT FROM BEHIND AND
A STAFF MEMBER WHOSE LEGS WERE
WOUNDED.
>> Reporter: IN ALL, THREE
WERE SEVERELY WOUNDED IN THE
ATTACK, SIX INJURED, SHRAPNEL
BLEW THROUGH THE CLINIC,
DAMAGING VALUABLE MEDICINES AND
EQUIPMENT, RARE TOOLS IN THIS
PART OF THE WORLD.
IN JANUARY THIS YEAR, 13
SUDANESE BOMBS HIT ANOTHER
N.S.F. CLINIC.
BACK AT MOTHER OF MERCY
HOSPITAL, DR. CA DR. CATEENA SAS
THEY'RE NOT AN ACCIDENT.
>> THEY WANT US TO GO AWAY, THEY
WANT TO KILL EVERYBODY HERE,
DEMORALIZE THE PEOPLE AND TREAT
EVERYBODY LIKE ANIMALS.
>> Reporter: PBS "NewsHour"
SHOWED BOMBING OF THE MOTHER OF
MERCY HOSPITAL.
>> IF WE CAN DETERMINE WHERE
THEY ARE, THEY PROBABLY COULD BE
INSIDE THE BARRACKS AND THE
CAMPS AND THEY COULD ALSO BE NOT
IN SUDAN.
THEY COULD BE IN SOUTH SUDAN OR
ANY OTHER AREA.
>> Reporter: AS FOR TARGETING
OF M.S.F. FACILITIES, HE SAID
THE GROUP ISN'T SUPPOSED TO BE
OPERATING IN SUDAN IN THE FIRST
PLACE.
>> THEY HAVE BEEN ASKED TO GO
OUT OF SUDAN SINCE 2008.
SO PROBABLY THEY'VE KEPT
OPERATING WITHOUT THE KNOWLEDGE
OF THE GOVERNMENT OF SUDAN.
IF THEY'VE DONE THIS THERAPY YOU
DON'T KNOW IF IT'S THE CAMP.
>> Reporter: SO I'M CLEAR.
THE SUED KNEES GOVERNMENT HAS
NOT BEEN TARGETING THE
FACILITIES OR THE FACILITIES ARE
AIDING THE REBELS AND --
>> WE ARE NOT TARGETING AT ALL
ANY FACILITY FOR SMS.
AND THAT'S BUT A WE'RE NOT
TARGETING AID WORKERS.
>> WE DON'T WORK AT ANY
PARTICULAR MILITARY BODY.
IT'S AGAINST OUR CORE
PRINCIPALS.
>> Reporter: THE HEAD OF
M.S.F. SUDAN OPERATION SAID THE
GOVERNMENT REPEATEDLY TOLD THE
GOVERNMENT ABOUT THE OPERATIONS.
>> WE INFORMED THEM ABOUT OUR
ACTIVITIES THERE AND THE
LOCATION FROM THE VERY
BEGINNING, EVEN BEFORE WE OPENED
THERE, WE INFORMED THEM AND WE
KEPT INFORMING THEM ABOUT OUR
ACTIVITIES THROUGH DIPLOMATIC
CHANNELS.
>> Reporter: N.S.F. ALL
WORKING IN SUDAN DESPITE BEING
ORDERED OUT BY THE GOVERNMENT.
>> BECAUSE WE CAN SEE THE NEEDS
OF THE PEOPLE.
WE HAVE KIDS, MOTHERS, ELDERS
WHO ARE DENIED CARE, AND WE COME
TO LOOK AT THEM.
WE NEED TO DO SOMETHING.
>> Reporter: WHEN ASKED ABOUT
THE PARACHUTE BOMBS AND CLUSTER
MUNITIONS THAT IS SUDANESE
FORCES USE --
>> WE'RE COMBATING AGGRESSIVE
OPINION AND UNFORTUNATELY SUDAN
IS USING A VERY OLD TECHNOLOGY
IN ITS FORCES AND THAT LEAD TO
MANY THINGS.
>> Reporter: SAYS THAT REBEL
FORCES SHOWN HERE FIGHTING LAST
SUMMER REGULARLY COMMIT
ATROCITIES.
HE SENT "NewsHour" THIS REPORT
FROM SUDANESE STATE TELEVISIONTD
A SCHOOL AND STOLE CROPS IN ONE
TOWN.
IN ANOTHER, THEY ATTACKED A
POWER PLANT AND BANKS.
MEANWHILE, AMAL'S FOOT IS MOSTLY
HEALED AND SHE'S REUNITED WITH
HER HUSBAND.
>> I HAVE ARRIVED HERE, THANK
GOD.
HOWEVER, I CAN'T MOVE AROUND.
I MIGHT BE ABLE TO MAKE TEA, IF
I HAVE A GUEST OVER I CAN MAKE
TEA AND FOOD.
BUT SAY I HAVE TO GO AND BRING
WATER OR GO FOR LONG-DISTANCE
ERRANDS, I CAN'T DO THAT.
>> Reporter: THEY HAVE LEFT
THEIR VILLAGE AND TAKEN RENIEWNL
THE CAVES AND ROCKY SLOPES OF
THE NUBA MOUNTAINS.
MANY SEEK REFUGE HERE FROM THE
BOMBS AMONG THE CRAGGY SLOPES.
NATURAL DEFENSES ARE THE ONLY
KIND OF PROTECTION THAT THE
PEOPLE IN KORDAFAN CAN HOPE FOR.
FOR THE PBS "NewsHour", I'M
P.J. TOBIA REPORTING.
>> Ifill: LATER TONIGHT ON MOST
PBS STATIONS, "P.O.V." HAS MORE
ON THE CIVILIANS OF SOUTHERN
SUDAN COPING WITH WAR IN A
DOCUMENTARY CALLED "BEATS OF THE
ANTONOV."
>> Woodruff: ON THE NEWSHOUR
ONLINE, IT TURNS OUT THAT
MONKEYS AND HUMANS HAVE A LOT
MORE IN COMMON THAN WE MAY
THINK, INCLUDING AN INNATE SENSE
OF ECONOMIC JUSTICE.
IN A MAKING SENSE GUEST COLUMN,
STANFORD PROFESSOR IAN MORRIS
EXPLAINS HOW OUR PERCEPTION OF
FAIRNESS, AND THAT OF OUR
PRIMATE COUSINS, HAS EVOLVED TO
WHERE IT IS TODAY.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, pbs.org/newshour.
>> Ifill: TUNE IN LATER THIS
EVENING FOR CHARLIE ROSE, WITH
FORMER U.S. AMBASSADOR TO SAUDI
ARABIA ROBERT W. JORDAN.
AND THAT'S THE NEWSHOUR FOR
TONIGHT.
ON TUESDAY, WE TRAVEL TO HUNGARY
FOR A CLOSE UP LOOK AT THE WAVE
OF MIGRANTS FLEEING THE MIDDLE
EAST AND AFRICA, FOR SAFETY IN
EUROPE.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
JOIN US ONLINE, AND AGAIN HERE
TOMORROW EVENING.
FOR ALL OF US AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.